---
title: '6.1020/6.031 Spring 2023'
date: 2023-01-03
permalink: /posts/2023/6031/
tags:
  - notes
---

6.031 Spring 2023 Notes

======

## 02/07 Lecture 1: Static Checking

### Syntax Difference between JavaScript and Python

- JavaScript requires parentheses around `if` and `while`
- JavaScript ends with `;`
- JavaScript uses `{}` instead of indentation

### Types

A **type** is a set of values along with operations that can be performed on those values, like `number`, `boolean` and `string`.
**Operations** are functions that take inputs and produce outputs.
Some operations are **overloaded**, like `5 + 3` and `"5" + "3"` are both valid for `+`.

### Static typing

TypeScript is **statically-typed**. Variables are assigned a type at **compile time**, and the compiler deduces the types of expressions using those variables.

JavaScript and Python are **dynamically-typed** languages. Type checking are deferred until **runtime**.

Static typing is a kind of **static checking**. Static typing prevents bugs and will catch some error while programming instead of during running.

> TypeScript throws away the static type information after compilation and generates JavaScript when actually running. I thought it's quite interesting :)

> Python 3.5 and after also allows type hints in the code. Tools like [MyPy](https://mypy-lang.org/) could check for types

### Static checking vs. dynamic checking

Three types of checking include:

- **static checking**: bug is found before program runs
- **dynamic checking** : bug is found when code is executed
- **no checking**: no checking at all. You are on your own :(

In general, static checking > dynamic checking > no checking

| Static Checking | Dynamic Checking |
|-----------------|------------------|
| syntax errors | illegal argument values |
| misspelled names | illegal conversions |
| wrong number of arguments | out-of-range indices or missing keys |
| wrong argument types | |
| wrong return types | |

After the static checking in TypeScript, JavaScript is no checking.

### Type `number`

- **Limited precision for integers**: only accurate for integers between $-2^{53}$ to $2^{53}$. Beyond that range, only the most significant binary digit of the number

- **Special values**: `Number.NaN`, `Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY`, `Number.NEGATIVE_INFINITY`

- **Overflow and Underflow**: Very large number can't be represented. `Number.MAX_VALUE` is roughly $10^{308}$, and `Number.MIN_VALUE` is roughly $10^{-324}$.

> `Number` is the class wrapper of `number`. Call `Number` only to access the constants. Call `number` for the type.

> Floating-point arithemetic aren't exact because the fractional parts cannot be expressed exactly in base 2.

### Mutation vs. Reassignment

**Mutation** is changing the content of a value. An immutatble type is a type whose values can never change after being created.
Examples:
|Type | Mutable? |
|-----------|---|
|`String` in Python and TypeScript| :x: |
| `Array` in TypeScript | :heavy_check_mark: |
| `List` in Python | :heavy_check_mark: |
| `Tuple` in Python | :x: |
| `ReadonlyArray` in TypeScript | :x: |

**Reassignment** means chaning where a variable points. Python allows any variable to be reassigned, but TypeScript allows us to declare *constants*, which are unreassignable.

### Good Coding Practices

- Document any assumptions of the variables.
- Write a little bit and test often.
- Defend the code against stupidity (not sure what does this mean)

### Goal of the Class

The primary goal in this course is learning how to produce software that is:

- **Safe from bugs.** Static checking helps with safety by catching type errors and other bugs before runtime.
- **Easy to understand.** It helps with understanding, because types are explicitly stated in the code.
- **Ready for change.** Static checking makes it easier to change your code by identifying other places that need to change in tandem.